### Introduction

This is an example of how Bake can be used to manage a Poisson solver. If
you're unfamiliar with the Poisson problem, that's okay, this is just an
example of Bake being used to help with numerics. In this example, you will
learn about the command line parameters Bake has, and you will learn how to
extend the Bake code for yourself.

The Poisson problem in one dimension is:

    d^2 u/d^2 x = f(x) on some domain, (x_l, x_r)

with boundary conditions

    u(x_l) = u_l
    u(x_r) = u_r

poisson.py is a code that uses a second-order second-derivative finite
difference scheme to solve the poisson problem for a given combination of
forcing function f(x), domain, and boundary conditions.

### Case 1: constant

The first example is for a constant forcing function. The file, `constant.bp`,
reads:

    include(default.bp) # defaults include domain and bc's
    @label@;constant
    @forcing_function@;1.
    # Parabola, solution to constant forcing_function
    @ideal@;0.5 * @forcing_function@ * \
        ((x - x_l)**2 - (x - x_l)*(x_r - x_l)) + \
        u_l + u_r * (x - x_l) / (x_r - x_l)
    @n@;11

Here, the forcing function is a constant, unity. An ideal solution is also
given, as is the number of nodes. The very long `@ideal@` solution could have
been written all on one line with no wrapping, but when Bake reads a trailing
backslash followed by nothing (but the newline character), Bake continues the
next line. Leading whitespace on continued lines is stripped; this is nice so
that continued lines can be indented to indicate that they aren't new lines.

The file begins with an `include` command. This inserts the include file right
where the include statement is, so it is as if the file, `constant.bp`, read
as,

    @label@;default
    # Unit forcing function
    @forcing_function@;1.
    @x_l@;0.
    @x_r@;1.
    @u_l@;0.
    @u_r@;0
    # Number of nodes
    @n@;11
    @label@;constant
    @forcing_function@;1.
    # Parabola, solution to constant forcing_function
    @ideal@;0.5 * @forcing_function@ * \
        ((x - x_l)**2 - (x - x_l)*(x_r - x_l)) + \
        u_l + u_r * (x - x_l) / (x_r - x_l)
    @n@;11

This example has two test cases, constant and sine, and they have a lot of
common material in `default.bp`. Later lines override earlier lines, so the
`@label@` for this file is `constant`, not `default`.

### Bake command: list

Bake has three main commands that can be used together or separately. The first
is list. First, do,

    $ mkdir batch

Then, if you do,

    $ bake -l -f bp/constant.bp

Bake outputs just

     constant

This is the name of the directory that will be generated in `batch/`. (The `-f`
flag is necessary to select the file that Bake uses as its source for keys and
values.) If you are running multiple jobs through Bake, Bake gives the list of
all jobs it would make. This is a helpful preview, so you can make sure you
don't overwrite an existing job. This is also useful in determining the number
of jobs that Bake will create.

### Bake command: mix

The second main Bake command is mix. If you do,

    $ bake -m -f bp/constant.bp

Bake actually mixes the files compare_ideal.py, model.py, and poisson.py,
substituting the values in the bp/constant.bp file in for the keys in the
source code files. If you do,

     $ bake -m -f bp/constant.bp

a second time, you should get the error,

OSError: [Errno 17] File exists: './batch/constant'

Notes:

* If you haven't installed Bake yet, use `../../bake/cmdline.py` instead of
`bake` throughout this tutorial.)
* If you see the error, `OSError: Bake requires the directory, batch`, just do,
  `mkdir batch`. This makes a place for the runs to go.

This is so that you don't accidentally overwrite the source code for a job
using Bake. Instead,

      rm -rf batch/constant

and then re-run Bake. Alternatively, using `-M` instead of `-m` overrides this
restriction.

### Bake command: execute

The third main Bake command is execute. If you do,

    $ bake -e 'python poisson.py' -f bp/constant.bp

Bake goes into the `batch/constant` directory and does

     python poisson.py

as if you had done `cd batch/constant` and typed that yourself. Running
`poisson.py` generates a text file, `solution.txt`, the solution to the given
poisson problem, with the first column being x coordinates and the second
column being the corresponding u values.

### Evaluating results

Bake is also good for post-processing jobs. For the constant example, if you
do,

    $ bake -e 'python compare_ideal.py' -f bp/constant.bp

then Bake outputs the output of compare_ideal,

    4.16333634234e-17

This is the difference between the ideal and the calculated solutions.

(If you're interested in numerical solutions to differential equations, this is
the L_infinity norm. This is value is near machine epsilon. This is expected
for the constant forcing function test case.)

You can repeat this entire process for another test case, with a sine forcing
function, in one step,

    $ bake -m -e 'python poisson.py; python compare_ideal.py' -f bp/sine.bp

and see

          0.00826541696623

Here, the `-e` (execute) flag is two commands joined into a one-liner. The
error in this solution is much higher than the constant forcing function
case. The `-m` `-l` and `-e` flags can all be combined; here just `-m` and `-e`
are used.

### Bake command: overwrite

Suppose that the file constant had its @label@ line as,

    @label@;constant-n@n@

and its `@n@` line as,

    @n@;3;5;11;21;41

then Bake would know to process five jobs:

    constant-n3
    constant-n5
    constant-n11
    constant-n21
    constant-n41

The key, `@n@`, sets the number of nodes used to represent the domain; if you
use more nodes, you should see lower error, in general. You could generate
these jobs by editing the bp file. However, you could equivalently do,

    $ bake -l -m -e 'python poisson.py; python compare_ideal.py' \
          -f bp/constant.bp -o '@label@;constant-n@n@' -o '@n@;3;5;11;21;41'

Each `-o` (overwrite) item acts like a line in the original bp file. In this
case, Bake behaves precisely as if you had edited `bp/constant.bp` to change
the `@label@` and `@n@` lines. If you had written one `-o` for each key, you
wouldn't have to specify a bp file at all.

Similarly, you can do this with the sine test case by doing,

    $ bake -l -m -e 'python poisson.py; python compare_ideal.py' \
          -f bp/sine.bp -o '@label@;sine-n@n@' -o '@n@;3;5;11;21;41'

These two commands give

    constant-n3
    0.0
    constant-n5
    0.0
    constant-n11
    4.16333634234e-17
    constant-n21
    4.16333634234e-17
    constant-n41
    1.11022302463e-16

and

    sine-n3
    0.233700550136
    sine-n5
    0.0530292875455
    sine-n11
    0.00826541696623
    sine-n21
    0.00205870676453
    sine-n41
    0.00051420047815

(The error for the constant case increases with n because of the accumulation
of truncation error. The error in the sine case decreases with n because the
discretization error decreases.)

### Customizing Bake

It's easy to make your own version of Bake that uses Bake's ability to
manipulate a grid of jobs, doing operations that are important for your
project. There is a special front-end to Bake in the myBake directory in this
example. To try this next example, first clear the batch directory,

    $ rm -rf batch/constant

If you do 

    $ ./myBake/cmdline.py -m -P -f bp/constant.bp

the -P option acts like `-e 'python poisson.py'`.

Making a custom front-end to Bake is helpful if your project involves running
the same command as you test your code, or if you have to run your code many
times for many different sets of inputs. A front-end for Bake is even more
helpful if you want some operations that use the Bake string-replacement tools.

If you do,

    $ ./myBake/cmdline.py -l -c -f bp/constant.bp -o '@label@;constant-n@n@' \
          -o '@n@;3;5;11;21;41'

Bake makes a table comparing n and the error for each case, and saves this as
`error.txt`.

The `-P` flag is implemented, mostly in two lines of code:

    task = 'execute'
    options.execute = ('python poisson.py')

This tells Bake to act as if 

     -e 'python poisson.py'

had been entered on the command line.

The `-c` flag is more complicated, but the way that it is implemented in
`cmdline.py` shows some idioms that can be used to apply the Bake token-value
replacement on things other than source code. Looking at cmdline.py in the
myBake directory is the best way to get started with your own Bake front-end.
